Talking about Jimmy Breslin.
You know, this is our fourth interview over the years?
Yes.
You don't remember, but... I remember.
I remembered everything today.
You tried to check it once over the phone on the Son of Sam site.
I came to see you at the Ritz-Carlton.
And you got the three scratches and you got this... Yeah.
And then this is the fourth one.
So this is the fourth one.
Yeah, good.
Good for us.
We're still here.
I saw Bill Cosby in an interview once, and he said he was over 50, and he said, well, I think I'm playing with house money.
How do you, I mean, is that a fair statement?
I guess.
I never look at it that way.
Do you want cream or sugar?
Just milk.
Just black, to me.
You want cream or sugar?
Yeah.
She worries.
You worry so much.
Don't worry, but that's why she's so good, you know.
No, I don't think anything like that.
Good.
I don't either, by the way.
It's a good line if you want to... Every day's a blessing.
Oh, come on.
They say it's a beautiful day today.
I never cared from early on whether it was raining, snowing, heat.
It's a day.
It gives you a shot at life, another chance.
It's good.
I don't care.
You look wonderful.
I'm all right.
I'm not drinking.
I don't smoke.
I...
I live a lousy life as a result.
Because the only thing I ever like to do is work and after work, right away, run into the bar.
Because after all, you just did a day's work and you deserve a drink.
Especially in this business.
So I used to drink a lot and it was terrific.
You tell lies at the bar.
and listen to stories it was terrific and you can be forgiven forgetting things that happen oh who cares what happened it's great well i'm teasing because you had you had one thing no one went on in those newspaper saloons which does not go on in new york anymore anywhere i can only speak for my own time there's no bar they get everybody goes into and in those bars as you know there was always somebody with a memory
Not the kind of cold, pitiless memory a computer drags up for you when you go to the files.
I mean, they tell you a lot of addresses and not much else.
They'd have a guy at the bar who had covered something, had been around something,
He could tell you what the weather was like and who was there and who talked and who said what away from the reporters, who got mad, who got drunk, who did this.
And I remember that same day this happened and that happened.
And it would be go into your mind and add to your law, add to your knowledge, add to your experiences.
And as you wrote, you could get the clips on the economy.
And then you had the memory of the guy telling you about it to go with the clips or the, what do you call it, Nexus, Lexus, whatever you get it.
Yeah, I use everything in sight, and I still would love to have somebody have told me something about it horribly.
So I think that's missing in the newspapers, and they don't go to bars.
They go home, all people in the news business seem to go home, or they go to health clubs, they have a glass of wine at home at dinner.
And they're not going to make for a very healthy life, it makes for a much better family life than you all.
I think they're not as good, and I think the leaders get murdered because they are boring, and that is the number one sin in any religion, and in any breaking of any law, to be a bore.
That's a felony.
I just couldn't agree with you more.
I think the quality of reporting is peck journalism.
It's crazy.
Well, I always ran away from it.
I talk about that in my book.
I sound like another guy, shamelessly killing.
But when Kennedy from this town was killed in 1963, I went up the walk of the White House, the driveway to the White House, and here was in front of him was Haile Selassie from Ethiopia, a short man.
in a pompous uniform with feathers and decorations.
And next to him was Charles de Gaulle towering over him, wearing the uniform of a French non-commissioned officer.
It was a great scene, but it's not good for me.
I can't make a living writing about that.
So I'm going into the White House, and I'm trying to tell myself, I've got to get away.
There's 3,000 reporters here.
I cannot make it here.
What am I going to do?
And I said, well, let's get the central thing.
It's a funeral?
The main thing in a funeral is burying somebody, burial, so I'll go and get the guy that dug the grave.
I can't talk to the guy being buried.
I'll go talk to the guy who dug the grave for him.
And I went inside for a moment, and Art Buckwall was there.
He's from the Herald Tribune, the paper I was on.
Fellow alum.
Yeah, so I said I told him I can't I'm gonna go get the grave digger.
He said that is a good idea That's a very good idea.
I said thank you and I left fortified by his encouragement his judgment.
He's smart as hell Yeah, he's a smart fella I went to I went to the cemetery I found the grave digger his name was Polly.
He got three dollars and ten cents an hour to dig the grave.
He said it's an honor and
He did it on a Sunday, his day off.
And then the funeral came on, and here's Eisenhower, Truman, the Hedge Estate, or from all over the world.
And probably just like a working man, they wouldn't let him in.
Soldiers told him, go away.
You know, he wasn't dressed well enough to go to the funeral that he had given him the grave.
So he went and dug more graves for him.
Yeah, some serviceman from Somerville sailor died in 1917 war as a result of it.
I mean, he was in that war and now he's being buried as a soldier.
And he got $3.10 and then he came back and he went to the gravesite when everybody was gone.
He looked at it and he liked the way he knew they needed some new turf here.
he would fix that and he said it's an honor the whole thing that was running away from the crowd they did the same thing at the church hill always run away run for your life away from a crowd because i think the public is lied to when you get five cameras on somebody and they're talking
You know the guy is only talking for himself.
He's not trying to tell anybody anything.
He's not going to give you anything new, which is the word familiar.
So pull your cameras out of there.
The man is only going to lie.
Don't talk to him.
The camera has screwed up good stories.
Yes.
Because you let the camera do the work for you.
Yeah, and it doesn't do any work.
What it does is stand there, and it's an accomplice to a liar.
And the liar usually is the politician.
You did the same thing in the Churchill matter.
I mean, you know, using that nexus stuff, you could find out where that damn painting is, by the way.
No.
I found a woman with a Rubens painting in her house, and it was a row house.
Oh, she had introduced Churchill.
We gotta find out where that is.
I could probably find out.
Ruben J. Jardine.
Oh, yeah.
Well, I mean, I'm good at that.
I'm pretty tight with museums and stuff.
It's a great big painting.
Well, I mean, it's worth a fortune.
You're absolutely right.
And I remember the woman, that lady, Cynthia Colville, I met her in front of Churchill's hospital.
He's inside Dimes.
She went to visit him.
She didn't let her in.
They opened the door up to her.
Well, they let her in.
That was what was really good.
Because her...
Like they wouldn't let the grave digger in if they were there?
No, they let her in because she's wealthy.
Money talk.
She came down and said, oh, there's such a crowd.
She was broke.
She didn't have any money.
Well, pedigree over there is the same as money, I guess.
Better.
The detective with the door took off his hat and held out his arm and ushered her in.
I went home with her.
She lived in a row house, and it was cold, greasy, cold house, with a rubens on the wall.
Great.
Do you think you would have written a memoir without your medical experience here?
Yeah, I wouldn't have.
I'm memoirs of it.
That's not me.
But what I did was I got this aneurysm discovered by sheer luck.
Total accident.
They were looking for something else and they found this.
And the thing they were looking for was a nothing.
It bothered my left eye for a while and it came from a nerve.
was frozen with high blood sugar, stressed.
Among other things, because I'm off that alcohol, you can't blame it on that.
And I went to light.
I'm not going to go through all this and not use it, use the experience and use the legwork.
So I started to write and then I started to write everything that happened to me on the day I went to get the top of my head taken off in an operation in Phoenix, Arizona.
So you pass the street, Blumstein's department store in Harlem.
I remember Martin Luther King when he had a deranged woman plunged a letter opener into his chest.
And two cops, Al Howard and Phil Arnano, saved his life.
I was young, but I knew them.
Then, very opposed to the Essex Hacier, the smell of the moot from the Manhattaners that Casey Stengel used to drink when Marvin Krohn-Murray would miss stepping on first base and get called out and then his excuse to Stengel was I didn't touch second either.
And with that, Stengel would run to the bar and never come on.
That's where I got my first book.
He had a thousand Manhattans one night after he's thrown by Resetac.
A thousand.
And I'm on the periphery of the crowd.
He always had a bomb with him, Stengel.
I'm on the periphery drinking big cold beers, a hundred of them.
And he said, I didn't have the money to pay an Essex house bill.
Stengel...
He did, but he was making sure he wasn't going to pay.
He had some big businessman wanting to hang out with a big baseball manager, let him put his money up.
That's the way he used to work.
And he said, this thing is going to be under everybody's heel on a subway in the morning.
What you're riding, you're crazy.
He says, go home and write a book.
Say Marvin Clumberg is the biggest moron ever to live.
And people said, that's right, he is a moron.
This fella's telling the truth.
He says, I think you're going to get out of here and go home.
So I went home, and to me, one of the tests of a good idea is its ability to last through the hangover.
And this one did.
And I wrote a book.
And I'm writing a book on the first year of the New York Mets, the worst team in the history of baseball.
Stengel, who had managed Joe DiMaggio, and I was managing Marvin Frumbois.
Well, he was fun.
Whiskey, sweet vermouth.
I'm typing, and I get to a point, you know, you're not dealing with nuclear science or the political future of the country here when you're writing a sports story.
So I'm writing a thing, and I get to a partner with Bigfoot, just that the words came out of me.
It was very good.
Can't anybody here play this game?
So I put quotes around it and gave it a, put a, Stengel said it.
It came out that way, and Stengel said it.
Stengel says, but it was in the content with the way he taught.
It was in Stengelese.
Absolutely.
He just didn't happen to say that precise thing.
It came out that way.
It was terrific.
And Stengel thought it was wonderful.
He wanted a copywriter.
He said, that's my man.
My man.
He knows what I'm picking up.
It's good.
He loved it.
He used to go like that.
Well, they had a play.
I woke up one morning home and I see it.
They had to go play.
Off board might play.
Can't anybody here play this game?
Well, I went freaking nuts.
You can't copyright a title.
I said, they stole my title.
They stole it.
And the agent said, no, they didn't.
That's a quote from Casey Stengel.
A different title.
Look to him.
I went back to bed.
I says, crime does not pay.
But even then, I don't think you can copyright a title.
I don't know what you can do.
You should.
You should, but you can't.
If I wanted to call my book Gone with the Wind, you could do it.
It's ridiculous.
So, I mean, those things, the smell of the promoter, the look at the department store, and then I got on the plane and went to the...
I think they can operate on a brain surgeon.
I'm looking at you.
I can't.
No, it's good.
These things, apparently, it's like a jury verdict.
You're guilty or not guilty.
You're guilty.
Most people don't even know what the hell it is.
I didn't know when the guy said it.
An aneurysm.
I didn't know what it was except for newspaper obituary stories.
You know that, too.
My criticism.
An aneurysm on the heart.
Yeah, they go on the aorta, I found that out.
This picture, Cone has one on his arm, that's rare.
Mostly the brain, and you don't hear much about it.
And this guy died on the operating table.
Thanks, why don't you tell me that?
Some more.
It's a fait accompli.
I remember they said anterior communicating artery right across the front of the brain.
And it had a blister on it.
It's a blister.
Looks like a blowout on the tire.
And this one was weak.
You could see blood coursing through it.
Swirling.
That's it.
And they operated.
And I was very worried about the...
coming out of it, not dead or alive.
I had a faith in God that gave me serenity.
And that's not religious fanaticism.
That's plain common sense.
Well, that's the state of grace here.
If there's a phrase, it recurs.
This is real.
Well, I want you to talk about it.
Well, I went through days
When I found out I had this thing, and I just assumed they would come apart.
Well, I don't fall apart yet.
There will come a time when I'll fall apart.
My imagination is something.
The form on me, I'd be two to five to be.
You know, that's Jimmy Cagney going to the electric chair, where you fall apart in the hallway.
I figured that's going to happen as soon as I'm here.
So try and cover it up.
Try and not let people see how you're so scared.
I was planning how I was going to not let you run out.
But I said in the end, it's going to be something.
I'll be...
fucking murder.
I'll be begging people and every other fucking thing.
Look at this.
Oh, I was mad.
Because I know what the police don't, you know, one of those things that come out of me.
Well, it never did.
And as the date came on me, I grew calmer and calmer.
I had a faith in God and a belief, deep belief all my life that I never went out of the bracket on about.
And now it was just kind of, and I began to figure out
I spent nearly all of my life in newspapers and writing in poor neighborhoods, people of color, and I thought it was an obligation, and I did it.
All people in trouble live on the fifth floor of a walk-up.
There's nobody in trouble on the first or second floor, no stories.
on the first two flights.
Five and six up.
Because this is just something you've noticed through your ears.
All trouble is upstairs.
Start walking now.
Do you have theory for that?
No, they're looking to kill you, that's all.
Keep walking.
I just can't get any, I can never get anything easy.
And so I thought that had a lot to do with.
I mean, the favorite book I've ever done, it's called He Got Hungry and Forgot His Manners.
It's about a cannibal in Brooklyn.
A guy in Brooklyn came in from Africa, and he began to eat people because he was hungry.
Well, I thought it was the best thing I did him was to sell 11 copies.
Nobody wanted to read about it.
Nobody wanted to know anything about Black Lives Matter.
Now they're coming to a point where they're going to have to read that stuff because it's going to be not as crazy as I made it, but they're going to have children out on the street dying.
the way it's going, and put one anyway.
So I've done all that.
So I just thought at the end that all those days, all those nights, all that, well, I didn't write some cheap mystery novel about a rich young woman out of the Washington Post married to a millionaire or something like that.
But I didn't do that type of work.
tried to do the other, it was just kind of, it was, I had done something for my soul and I'm now getting some help out of it.
And I believed it was the state of grace.
That's a Catholic belief, I guess, but the surgeon down there where I went told me to work there, they're looking for anything when they come in.
You know, they're clean to some God or some form.
Nobody goes in there alone, nobody.
So I believed.
I was so... Are you a regular churchgoer?
I am, yeah.
Almost 80% of the time, yeah.
Is it something that kind of came up with that?
No, I don't know.
But it sure reinforced my thinking.
Of course, the fear for you is the greater, the anxiety, I guess, is not life or death, but...
You're talking about verbs and nouns.
I mean, this is the part of the brain where, you know... Yep.
It's right in front of the brain.
That's where your language comes from.
Where I had the angers and where they were going to be tinkering.
So I thought that was a...
It was a big worry.
In fact, it should have been a danger.
It should have had me terrified, but it didn't until I got to one point after the operation.
But before it, nothing.
And I was home that night before, and my wife went to bed, and everything's quiet in the bedroom, and I look out the window, there's a helicopter over the night sky in Manhattan.
And it made me remember, and I was looking for some noise here.
I mean, I can't go into a thing this huge involving me that there isn't some catastrophe around me.
People wringing their hands and begging and crying.
I had some noise.
So I remembered I got on a helicopter with Ollie Greenberg, a photographer, pulled me on once at Kennedy Airport, and the Beatles were on.
He was taking their pictures.
He was a photographer.
So we flew from Kennedy to the Wall Street heliport in Manhattan and over Queens that George Harrison takes off the buckle and begins to jump up and down the stream.
We're crashing.
We're going down.
And then McCartney's screaming the same thing.
Oh, yes, we're going to die, die.
Oh, my God, save us.
So everybody was doing it.
The four of them in the pilot began to rock the helicopter to get it even crazier.
And we landed and everybody tumbled out laughing.
It was how they took a bus ride that way, I assume.
But I remember them screaming, die, die.
So I looked at it, I jumped out of bed and said, all right, but I began to scream, honey, I'm going to die tomorrow.
Absolutely.
Die, die, die.
I'm going to wind up.
A vegetable in the desert, I'm going to stare at the sun and say I see polar bears.
You know, this is the end, Ronnie.
We're all through.
I'm through.
It's over.
She just looked at me, and then I tumbled, and I thought I went to sleep.
I couldn't even cause trouble on my own behalf.
But when I went down there, there was a guy in the hospital that anything you told him, if you held up a wristwatch, he said, that's a taxi cab.
I heard that.
Well, they held up a jacket and said, that's a taxi cab.
The kids saw that car.
They didn't.
And then I heard later, you know, taxi cab on something else that I'd call and talk.
Well, the guy, he had no nouns.
Geez.
Now, another guy, the numbers guy, the nurse pointed out, he said, you know, four, five, six.
Four, five, six.
I said, geez, I'm not a mathematician.
It's not going to help me, the numbers.
And I woke up from the thing, and I don't like waking up like that either.
But I woke up from the operation while experiencing it.
The minute I could, I tried to write.
I wanted to write.
So I started to write something out about the start of this thing I was going through.
And I worked for three days.
I really tried, and it tired me, and I worked.
And when I looked at the product, it was pure Croatian.
And it was unintelligible.
And I had done it, you know, straight, like I did everything else, and it just didn't come out.
So I thought, then there'd be something, the amount of it would be a gap in my mind or something, and I'm in trouble.
And I became overwhelmingly depressed, and I didn't know where I was going.
And then the one thought came in that, if I can,
If I can see what's the matter, if I can understand it's wrong, then maybe I must have a way to fix it and do it right.
So I just thought, come on, I mean, it's only a living dependent on this whole thing.
Start!
I worked and finally I got one subject, verb, object, period to slip out of a block bank on the paper.
I worked and another one appeared and then finally I got a paragraph down and it was, you know, I wrote it, as you can tell, Leslie wrote it and I was back.
But it was, you know, the radio.
Without this experience, would there have been a memoir at this point, or would you have done a memoir at all?
No.
Who the hell cares about me?
You know, that was my stand.
Writers are supposed to write about other people.
So, but basically, you said, well, I'm going through this.
This is property.
I may as well pay attention.
Absolutely.
No question.
That's the only reason I did it.
It's, you know, legwork.
Yeah.
Well, I love the line in there that you get your news on the two train.
Is that what it is?
I love that line.
It's good one.
Of course, I didn't know this about you, that you don't drive a car.
No, I don't.
And I'm thinking of this as in fighting and the goddamn turnpike coming in.
I don't drive a car.
You never have a car.
No.
Never.
I mean, didn't kids consider you kind of a wimp before?
Well, I show up.
I don't know.
Most of the kids didn't have cars because the bus stopped right in front of my house.
It went to the subway.
But there wasn't a badge of manhood then as it was.
No.
The subway was close enough to walk to.
We had two L's.
And I love the New York subway system.
Two L's and a subway.
And a bus.
And I was working nights in a newspaper.
I finished at 24 in the morning in the sports department.
You know, putting the last box for us on the West Coast, marking them for the paper.
And then you'd run to get into the bar, you know, about a quarter to two.
That was the year.
You had to be in there by then.
Drink until four, 4 a.m., 10 orders, and 32 beers.
And you'd have it to drink while the guy was mopping the place up.
You could drink, because you hadn't bought them.
I'll never forget the first interview you and I had.
It's got to be now, 15 years ago.
I was over at the Ritz.
And you ordered me, I thought you ordered us both scotch, but you ordered three, and they were all three for me, you know?
And I said, well, what about you?
You said, oh, I don't drink anymore.
I said, Jesus Christ, you're going to kill me.
And you said, well, you know, you said, I don't drink anymore.
And it's not the drinking that kills me, but it's the hangovers.
And I said, I have to agree, as you get older,
It takes longer and longer to recover, doesn't it, from these things?
We went into the second day, the hangover, laid into the second day, and that's it for me then.
Because I couldn't, I can't do anything with a hangover.
I'm a zombie.
And if it's going to go two days, then it can go three soon.
That's it.
Goodbye.
That's right.
Now you've given up the column, is that right?
Yeah.
So now, what it is, I'm under contract for five years to the Los Angeles Times Syndicate into Newsday, and I'm supposed to write periodically.
And that's what I do.
No, because I'm doing another book.
It's a novel.
I don't even know what it's about.
You've written a ton of books.
What's the breakdown of novels to nonfiction?
I don't know.
It's pretty even, though, probably.
Yeah, I guess, yeah.
I mean, I can figure that out, but I guess I'm just curious about what you're enjoying more.
Novel is the best fun, the most work, and the riskiest.
Why are there more work?
I mean, you can invent it.
Because there's not one scene that you don't have to make up yourself.
And at the same time, it's got to be based on more.
fact and truth than a news story.
You've got to have an awful lot of research going on.
That's my own.
And I do think you're right.
You put more of yourself out there on the line at this point.
Yeah, they all can criticize and call your names.
It's great.
So you say the next book is a novel?
Yeah, yes.
Tell me about New York.
I think it's the greatest city in the world myself.
I'm very pleased to see that the crime situation is receiving that.
I don't know if I'm asking a question there.
No, you're not.
For the first time in my life, I'm very suspicious.
I often wondered, how is all this crack getting into that?
How is what?
All this crack, all of a sudden, appeared.
And I wonder, how did this happen?
I mean, there seems to be no way to stop it.
The San Diego Mercury News... San Jose.
San Jose, I mean, Tappy Allison was on that tape.
Terrific.
They're doing 32 parts on the CIA selling drugs to the black gangs in central Montana.
I wouldn't believe it except I lived in New York when the crack suddenly appeared in such volume I didn't know what hit us.
What would the point be?
Oh, I'll tell you.
The point's obvious.
That's why it's possible.
There was a huge shipment on a plane, an Eastern Airlines plane at Kennedy Airport.
They found it.
They took the whole plane.
It was up in front of us.
Now, my daughter asked me, why haven't they located another plane?
They stopped looking.
I think the reason was to keep the black neighborhoods shooting at each other so you could run and say, look at all the crime in the city.
Get a suburban vote.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, you know, I...
I believe it's true.
They wouldn't pass a gun control bill.
All they wanted was shooting in black neighborhoods.
And also they made a fortune of money selling it.
Who's they?
CIA guys.
Who themselves do you think?
I don't know.
The organization is such a shambles.
It has initials and that's all.
They had a guy in there stood to the heart and I was all sitting at the desk
What was his name?
Oh, what was his name?
Audrey James.
He's drunk.
He don't know his name.
And he's living in a million-dollar house.
Living in a million-dollar house, getting phone calls to come and pick up $50,000 to go at the next best business.
They thought there was something the matter, but he wasn't sure.
That's how smart they were.
You're talking about the gang who couldn't shoot straight.
Well, it's the town drunk in the middle of the office, and they didn't know him.
Who was he?
Well, he's in charge.
Leave him alone.
I mean, that's just amazing.
So you still maintain a healthy, cynical disrespect for bureaucrats?
Yeah, but I can see them stepping out and selling stuff.
I truly hope you're wrong about that.
Why?
That's a hell of a way to approach the next millennium.
No, I think they were.
I just assumed they were.
They had a guy like Walter James doing it.
That's amazing.
Well, if you had him in the place, you're capable of anything, aren't you?
As you approach the next century, what is your take on human nature?
Does it ever change?
I don't know.
I think there's something the matter with the politics now.
That's why Shakespeare retains his strength, doesn't he?
He understood it exactly the way it is today.
There is something the matter with the politics, though.
It is cheaper.
That's obvious.
You see Bob Dole in the medical records issue.
What the hell are they trying to say?
I think they're trying to suggest maybe he had syphilis on the platform.
So what?
I mean, so what?
You know, I agree with him, so what?
And I don't care if Dole had so, I mean, I don't care.
I think, I think I do laugh at the Sunday shows, the announcers come on, and his guys, Russets, and what's her name?
Roberts, they're telling, they're telling Dole,
that he has to change in his personality, his demeanor, his speech.
He's 73, not because he's doing so fairly.
Now he's doing terrible.
He's running for president of the United States.
That's certainly a lousy career he's had.
They're saying he's a failure.
He's doing great.
He's not going to make it so long.
He's a nice guy.
He's a nice guy, and he did the best he could.
It wasn't good enough to run the whole country, but it was good enough to get him into the last game of the World Series.
That's pretty good.
Now, the other guy...
Clinton, he wants to be.
What does he want to be?
Kennedy?
Don't tell him that.
I don't know what he wants to be.
He's a pro, though.
What's his name?
That guy, what was his name?
Roger, the Republican guy.
The guy that used to be the... He pulled out early.
He says, this guy can take a hit.
He says, people underestimate this guy every step of the way.
I don't underestimate him doing that.
I don't overestimate his personal commitment.
He'll do anything good.
And so will his wife.
She could still say with a straight face she made $100,000 on a legitimate deal.
Which I don't care about, but don't tell me you did it legitimately.
At least wink at me.
Well, it was done years ago.
I mean, I got... Yeah, so I don't care about it.
Don't give a shit about that.
But just wink when you said retelling it, you have to.
The other one was like... Oh, it's like I didn't inhale.
I mean, that's... Who cares?
I mean, don't say it.
Don't insult us.
It's like saying O.J.
is innocent.
I'm driving in this morning.
The thing is about custody.
I saw your piece.
You had a piece on the O.J.
matter, and there's a new book out.
So, I mean, we don't have to get into that.
What piece was this?
He wrote a piece with an Esquire or something about, I'm sorry, he did it.
Jealousy one.
Give me a break.
I just read Jeffrey Toobin's new book.
Yeah, I need this on the tape.
Fuck, man.
I don't know.
He puts bullshit on him.
He's accusing all these other people of being politically correct.
He's saying that the reporters inflated OJ's intelligence, which is probably true.
Intelligence?
He's full of shit outside.
He is.
But there's a line that Tubin says early on in the trial, not in the trial, but in the proceedings,
that they determined, this is Tubin's line, that a strand of hair was of African American origin.
There's no such thing as African American hair.
It's like Greek American hair or Irish American hair.
You know, but in their wish to not offend anybody and to use the going phrase, that's a cultural phrase, that's an ethnic phrase, it has nothing to do with race.
But this guy in his own book uses that phrase.
This is fairly recent African-American terminology.
And I can see that.
I can respect it.
I can't.
I tell them why.
Because I was brought up by doing these freaking newspapers
And I can't fit it in a one-column head.
Now, what am I supposed to do if I'm on a copy desk?
With FM?
At least like a financial company.
I don't know what they're doing.
I don't like it.
The guy's in New York City.
If it becomes important to the story, he becomes of color or black.
If it isn't important to the story, why don't you leave it out?
That's right.
But it becomes ridiculous when they're talking about...
hair, which is racial, and it's got nothing to do with the ethnic designation.
But it just shows how absurd that we take it.
Anyway, I've got plenty of stuff in this.
Take your time.
But I would like you to describe my book.
Do you need a pen?
I've got a pen.
The book speaks for itself.
Your writing is right on, I've got to tell you.
What the fuck?
I bought it.
Somebody gave it to me yesterday.
Fucking guy.
This guy here.
He's been around, I think.
I don't know who the hell he is.
They sent it to me yesterday.
Lexington Herald Reader.
Yeah, but I like what he says.
He's a neurosurgeon.
The name of Lexington is a neurosurgeon.
Yeah, but the one thing I'm most proudest of, I worked very hard on this stuff.
What do you call it?
Description, it doesn't matter.
The inscription?
Yeah, yeah.
Well, remember I sent you a... You've probably forgotten.
You gave a... You got an honorary degree at Holy Cross College.
Yeah.
And I sent you the picture of... Remember I said we got a picture in the morgue?
I hope you've done it.
What's in September?
Today's the 16th.
The book's fine.
What I wanted was a couple of quotes.
Why doesn't the Globe only ran a few paragraphs?
I'm on a fucking show.
Oh, they're a pain in the ass.
They ignored my book, you know, up until a year.
They finally wrote a big feature on me in June, a year after the book came out.
B-A-S-B-A-N-E-S.
Good for you.
Good Greek name.
So they did a big takeout on me in June, a year after the book came out.
I was in my fifth printing at that place.
It was a feature.
It was nice.
It went out on the New York Times wire.
It got picked up all over the country.
It was nice.
But a year later, Bob Taylor gave me a nice thing in his column.
You can't complain.
I got ignored by the Daily Times.
I got a full page on the Sunday Times.
Go figure, right?
You don't know.
I read Christopher Lehman Hopps.
He sounds, he's a pain in the ass.
You overstate the relevant of your titles.
No, I'm very important.
That's right.
You go fuck ass, you make her crazy.
It was time for Bombass to have fun anyway, the whole thing.
If they read, I say, yes, he says,
He says, I know what to do.
I shall challenge him to a duel.
You know, they would say that's a dangerous killer or something.
He used to do it.
But I think your claim that you revitalized the concept of the American column is fair.
Yeah, that's fair.
Because everybody did, never mind trying to be Irish, but they did try to write like that.
Yeah, it's fair.
Look at Mike Barnacle here.
He has his lunch on Jimmy.
Yeah, what the hell's the difference?
You come as my hair all right?
Yeah, I look great.
All right.
Yeah, what's the difference?
There's no difference, yeah.
All the world is your Bartlett.
You take any stuff and do it again.
You know that line, the line from Yates, true, long as supper comes the heart of stone into stone.
That's his great line, I think.
I'm reading Montaigne, which is the only thing anybody ever read, the three volumes of Montaigne.
Damon Runyon arrived in New York with nothing.
He had a three-volume set of Montaigne, and Gene Fowler, who was the best probably ever to live, came in, and that's all he had with him.
You're kidding.
No, three-volume set of Montaigne.
Do you have this in your Damon Runyon book?
Yeah, Westbrook, I don't know.
Yeah, Westbrook, Pegler had it.
So what is it?
Jay Breslin had it.
I don't know what it is, but if you read it, the guy is ahead of the, by a millennium ahead of the world.
He really could figure things.
So I'm reading it, and he has in there a line that he's used, turns the heart of stone, Montaigne.
And then he says this is where he got it from.
A thousand years before that Summer Act put it down.
Now, Yates going around with a fresh oil like he invented poetry.
This is his famous line.
Well, that ain't.
He stole it.
The same as I'm looking through the book to steal one myself.
I see.
And all these people are taking everything so fucking serious.
You ever read The Lost Illusions?
I sound like I read a lot.
I don't.
But this I had to read by Balzac.
He says he went to, he gets a job on a newspaper in Paris, a little paper, and he's going to start out as a writer.
So his friend tells him how you do it.
You're supposed to turn in, get a short, they call them short little stories, you get paid for it.
But you must do four, because you're turning four, the editor will take the best one for himself.
He'll steal it and put his own name on it.
He'll use it.
Now they'll throw out,
One, two, not good enough, and they'll take one more, so that will give you one, and the other will have it.
And you'll get a payday.
And you'll get a payday, and keep bringing in four.
And make sure one of them is very good for the editor to steal.
Well, I'm starting to live because that's the only business I ever knew.
You know, for my sake.
You're robbed, what is this?
What are you nervous about?
You've got to go, it's far off.
Where do we go to now?
You've got an idiot.
Arthur was going to be the guest, and his son was graduating.
Tip O'Neill called me the night before.
You remember, good for you.
He called me the night before, Leo Dill, and I got to stand up for Arthur, because his daddy passes, they just tried to pull the lug from under him.
So I'm there making a speech, all these
Greek and Irish Catholics are there, Jesus.
And sister, Mother Teresa was there.
Amazing.
I went there, and they said, you know, folks, I see a woman there, the hands clasped, she's imitating Jesus Christ.
So I go to the phone, and I call home, and I says, I can't match this.
I said,
That was the first time I ever saw her.
Anybody ever saw her.
She always was an amazing woman.
She'd ride by helicopter.
She was in the hospital this morning.
I heard it on the radio.
She fell down.
What'd she do?
She's got a brain problem today.
She does?
Yeah.
Her doctor is a guy here burglar.
She sent me down.
I'm surprised you went to Arizona for that, and they couldn't do this for you up here in Boston, you know?
A hundred people told me to go there.
To Arizona.
And the guy finishes you in its next case, right?
He does hundreds.
I don't know.
He's a good fella, I mean.
Oh, I mean, no.
That doesn't bounce.
I mean, it bounces.
I don't care.
The patches kind of hit the curveball, right?
And he gets thrown a curve.
Yeah.
He brings it up.
So he hit the tarp posulate.
And out of the park, too.
And out of the park.
You hit it out of the park.
Otherwise, I mean, I'm here.
Great.
It's a pleasure always.
If I hadn't had a good day, I would have, you know, wouldn't have been too good.
Well, you had, anyway, Grafton's next to what?
It's next to what?
Next to what?
I'm sorry.
You told me.
It's Fully Square.
Was your late wife from Milford, Mass?
No.
Did you have any kind of connection with Milford Ness?
Because you gave a talk down there at a library once.
Milford Library.
Yeah, there was a guy that worked for... Because I gave the 10th anniversary and they said Jimmy Breslin was here 10 years ago.
The guy... Same guy that got me, I think.
Who was he?
From one of the papers here for the Hellas?
Exactly.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
And I can't think of his name.
Irish guy.
Yeah.
He brought me eight.
He had me come in.
Yeah, it was lovely place.
Well, you were there for the commissioning of the library, and I was there for the 10th anniversary.
Yeah, yeah, I was doing that.
And I said, well, how the hell did they do somebody like Jimmy Breslin?
The guy called 111 times.
111 fucker times.
And I said, yes, 110 times, you know, which I used to.
That's it.
You've got to go.
Well, listen, I've got to go.
Oh, it's wonderful, you know.